---
layout: archive
title: "Research"
permalink: /research/
author_profile: true
---

I have two main research programs: the history of German Idealism and contemporary trans theory.

My research in the history of German Idealism is reflected in my dissertation, _Harmony and Disquietude: Leibnizian Currents in German Idealist Thought_ directed by Adrian Johnston. Here my central ambition to offer resources for reimagining the standard 'from Kant to Hegel' narrative that dominates the Anglo-American reception of these works through a sustained examination of its Leibnizian inheritance. While the Pantheism Controversy is usually thought to be initiated by Jacobi in 1785, I argue that the philosophical roots of the Pantheism Controversy stretch back all the way to Spinoza's initial reception in figures like Pierre Bayle and Gottfried Leibniz. Moreover, the central subject of the Pantheism Controversy, Gotthold Lessing plays a central role in the controversy exactly because of the ambiguity of his position as the exemplar of the German Enlightenment. I then go on to give systematic treatments of Maimon's _quid juris_ question, Fichte's _Grundsaetze_ or foundational principles, and Hegel's notion of the Concept (_Begriff_), emphasizing the unacknowledged Leibnizian aspects of each of these ideas. My overall aim is to show the connection between German Idealist thought and a non or anti-Kantian early modern tradition centering on Leibniz. Alongside my dissertation, I currently have a book review of H.B. Nisbet's seminal biography of Lessing forthcoming in _Idealistic Studies_, and a paper on Fichte and the problem of other minds under review. 

My research in trans theory is devoted to the development of a systematic existential-phenomenology of gender dysphoria. In my ["Program for a Transgender Existentialism" (_TSQ_ 10.1, 2023)](https://penelopehaulotte.github.io/files/Program%20for%20a%20Transgender%20Existentialism%20--%20TSQ%202023.pdf) I propose a set of fundamental concepts drawn from existentialist thought for trans phenomenology and critique two prominent approaches in trans phenomenology on that basis. I see the central ambition of transgender phenomenology as embodied in the promise to suspend or neutralize the unrecognized prejudices and predispositions belonging to what I call "the cisgender attitude." Later, in my ["Gender Dysphoria for Critical Theory," (_Feminist Philosophy Quarterly_ 10.1, 2024)](https://penelopehaulotte.github.io/files/Gender%20Dysphoria%20for%20Critical%20Theory%20--%20FPQ%202024.pdf) I try to actualize this program through performing a trans phenomenological suspension on the traditional clinical model of gender dysphoria. In my view, gender dysphoria is not the psychological distress of living in the 'wrong-body,' but the political unfreedom marked by alienation from cisgender society. I hope to continue to develop these ideas into a monograph that would promise to be a fully systematic if nevertheless provisional phenomenology of gender dysphoria. I am happy to say that my forays in this direction have resonated with other trans people. ["Program for a Transgender Existentialism" was one of the most-read articles in _TSQ: Transgender Studies Quarterly_ for 2023.](https://penelopehaulotte.github.io/files/TSQ%202023%20Most-Read.jpeg) I afterwards served as the managing editor for _TSQ_ from 2022-2023. "Program for a Transgender Existentialism" was also used as the centerpiece for a [zine on trans experience and highly competitive speech and debate case.](https://penelopehaulotte.github.io/files/Program%20for%20a%20Transgender%20Existentialism%20Zine.pdf) 
