---
layout: archive
title: "Teaching"
permalink: /teaching/
author_profile: true
---

Teaching is central to my self-conception as a philosopher. I think that philosophy is most important when it speaks to existential questions concerning how we choose to live our lives, and accordingly, it is my aim to show how sources in the history of philosophy can speak to and with our contemporary problems. You can find my YouTube channel with many of my lectures to students [here.](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCtJC1C32h333kvKqwVPBSMQ) Below are some of the classes I have taught and short descriptions of my approach.

[Phil 1115: Introduction to Philosophy](https://penelopehaulotte.github.io/files/Phil%201115%20--%20Introduction%20to%20Philosophy%20(Fall%202023).pdf)

In this class we will learn the basics of philosophical inquiry. We will tackle pertinent questions as they emerge from everyday life. Examples of questions relevant to this class include: What is the good life? Is living a good life compatible with the fact that we suffer? How do we begin to face the fact that we will die? Our society is alienating—why is that the case? Is a good life possible in the wrong society? What role do our concepts of sex and sexuality play in that alienation? Readings will include selections from Plato, Dogen Zenji, Martin Luther King Jr., Epicurus, Karl Marx, Jean-Paul Sartre, Patricia Collins, Sigmund Freud, Michel Foucault, and Leslie Feinberg. 

[Phil 1130: Contemporary Moral Issues](https://penelopehaulotte.github.io/files/Phil%201130%20--%20Contemporary%20Moral%20Issues%20(Summer%202024).pdf)

This course will introduce students to and engage them in the philosophical analysis of contemporary moral issues.  Students will read and discuss texts dealing with various controversial social issues, which might include health care access, physician-assisted suicide and euthanasia, the death penalty, incarceration, war, and terrorism.

[Phil 2210: Early Modern Philosophy](https://penelopehaulotte.github.io/files/Phil%202210%20--%20Early%20Modern%20Philosophy%20(Fall%202023).pdf)

Early modern philosophy is typically defined as the European philosophical tradition spanning from René Descartes to Immanuel Kant. This period is marked by the emergence of experimental and mathematical sciences developed in part by figures such as Copernicus, Kepler, Galileo, Bacon and Newton. These scientific discoveries implied a revolutionary overturning of religious orthodoxy throughout Europe, which in turn called for philosophical reflection: What of old religious beliefs can be maintained in the face of the successes of the natural sciences? Is there such a thing as a soul? How is the concept of a soul related to personal identity? Is knowledge possible, and if so, what are its limitations? What is the ultimate nature of reality? Does God exist? Do I exist? These questions were raised and addressed by a series of philosophers we will examine in this course: Montaigne, Bacon, Galileo, Descartes, Princess Elisabeth, Amo, Spinoza, Leibniz, du Châtelet, Locke, Berkeley, Hume, and Kant. Throughout our readings we will address questions related to epistemology (the study of knowledge), metaphysics (the study of ultimate reality), and philosophy of mind. While one of the goals of the course will be to respect the historical circumstances of the authors in question, another aim is to show that the concerns of this period of philosophers remains relevant today.

[Phil 2220: Ancient Greek Philosophy](https://penelopehaulotte.github.io/files/Phil%202220%20--%20Ancient%20Greek%20Philosophy%20(Spring%202024).pdf)

Philosophy in the West conceives its origins in the ancient Greek tradition. This class introduces philosophy through a survey of the extant material from these thinkers. In particular, this class will travel from Thales and the pre-Socratics through Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle and finally providing a brief engagement with the Stoics, Skeptics, and Epicureans of the Hellenistic period. These investigations will primarily discuss metaphysics (the nature of ultimate reality), epistemology (the study of knowledge), and ethics (the study of the good life) through critical engagement with these thinkers. What is a life worth living? How does such a life stand in relation to political authority? Should we fear death—and if so, why? Who can claim genuine knowledge of things? What is the power of philosophy? Can philosophy grasp the truths of ultimate reality, and if so, how? The aim is to see how these different topics come together for the ancient Greeks, and, possibly for us as their contemporary readers as well. This course will be fully online and consists of weekly reading responses, a midterm, and a final.

[Phil 358: Ethical Theory](https://penelopehaulotte.github.io/files/Phil%20358%20--%20Ethical%20Theory%20(Spring%202024).pdf)

Ethical theory is the branch of philosophy where philosophers attempt to thematize the good. This class aims to proceed systematically through major theories of morality from both historical and contemporary sources. We will address questions such as: What is the good? What makes something good? Does morality focus on producing good actions, good persons, or good results? Are there ever exceptions to ethical rules? Can we know whether actions are right or wrong? Are we ever correct to make such judgments? Are emotions ever relevant to morality? What are moral facts? Do animals deserve moral consideration? What should I do? Working through these questions we will investigate figures in the history of ethical thought such as Plato, Aristotle, Immanuel Kant, John Stuart Mill, Friedrich Nietzsche, Ludwig Wittgenstein, Peter Singer, Christine Korsgaard, G.E.M. Anscombe and Audre Lorde among others. Assignments will consist of an in-class presentation and a final paper. 

[Gndr 2110: Introduction to WGSS](https://penelopehaulotte.github.io/files/Gndr%202110%20--%20Introduction%20to%20WGSS%20(Spring%202024).pdf)

What is women, gender, and sexuality studies? What is the distinctive mark of a feminist investigation into the social position of women? What do such interventions have to say about gender or sexuality? Who gets to count as a woman and why? This class attempts to introduce women, gender, and sexuality studies not by definitively answering these questions but by carefully examining the history of how the fields of feminist, queer, trans, and postcolonial theory address these questions and the broader implications of their social critique. As such, this class deals with topics such as prison abolition, activist work, intersectionality, heteronormativity, colonialism, and historiographical problems related to the study of these subjects. 
